---
title: "Cricut"
created_at: Fri Jun 12 10:03:44 MDT 2015
kind: article
tags:
  - cricut
---

# research

Cricut Explore Air


http://joyslife.com/should-i-buy-a-silhouette-cameo/

* Silhouette Cameo
* Sizzix Eclips
* KNK Zing

Being able to use .svg and other cut and draw files is what makes the
Silhouette Cameo, Sizzix Eclips and KNK Zing better options for me.
I want to be able to use .svg and other files that I buy from different
individuals or companies, like Lettering Delights or SVGCuts.  I also want
to be able to make my own.  Is that what you want?  You might like one of
these machines.  No need to buy a whole cartridge for a single image.
YAY to that!  All three of the machines I’ve just mentioned can
import .svgs (and other file types).  In my opinion, the Sizzix Eclips
is the best machine.  It can handle tougher materials than the Cameo.
For those who like cartridges, the Eclips does offer a line of them but
you don’t ever need them unless you just want them.  If you use the
cartridges with it, you don’t need a computer.  I always use it with
a computer.  Although I have used the cartridges, it’s rare that I do.
The Eclips is a solid, well built machine.  It’s easier to use than the
KNK Zing, which is the sturdiest machine by far.  (Like if you want to cut
balsa wood or engrave things, it’s your buddy.)  All that being said,
I recommend the Silhouette Cameo  due to it’s very easy to use software
and the ability to easily order from their store.  Most of their files
cost .99 and are excellent.  They download seemlessly into the software
and you can get back to crafting.  I just dig that simplicity.
